ABLE Workshop Ideas for Vancouver

Meso: Assessing Students, Courses, and Programs with Free R Tools

Major: Writing Open Collaborative Books Online Using GitHub and Bookdown

The demo project: 
	Moving our old BioCore Writing Guide online

What participants DO:
	Create a GitHub account
	Set up a plain text editor
	Set up R, R Studio as IDE
	Clone the Writing Guide
	Fill in pre-selected pages

What participants SEE:
	Using Marked2 as a HTML-ifier workflow.
	Using knitr as a HTML-ifier workflow.

What participants GET:
	G.Markdown cheat sheet
	R/R Studio
	GitHub account
	Complete Writing Guide as a PDF


Going Zero-Tech: Building Lab Activities Locally


Major-Workshops Committee
Amy, Angela:

Hope both of your are doing well. I just posted the write-up for the 2021 majors workshop, and am already thinking about next year in Vancouver. I'm no longer in charge of our labs program (handed it off officially May 15th) so I'm not really in a position to present a wet-lab workshop. Going over the border creates the problem of getting materials there too. 

I have an idea for a workshop in 2022 that grew out of the 2021 one. I wanted to ask whether you like this as a possible major: 
	"Making Open Collaborative Books Using GitHub and Bookdown"

What I want to know is whether this is even something people would want to see in a workshop. It will take some work to have it ready for submission, and I wanted to get your reaction before committing to if fully.

The back story is a bit convoluted, so I apologize for this in advance. Several people in my 2021 wanted to see the Scientific Writing Resource Guide we use across all of our introductory level courses. I cannot share it electronically because it contains copyrighted material, and it also is somewhat outdated. 

One of my tasks this coming year is to update the Guide, replace the copyrighted material, and move it to a natively web-based format. I'll be converting it to a lightweight markup language that plays well with LMSs, and also can be processed by R Studio to create books that live online. Here are links to books written this way, so you see the format. All of them are built from text files that can be downloaded from GitHub for free:

The guide to using Bookdown: https://bookdown.org/yihui/bookdown/
The guide to using Markdown inside R: https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/
The home page for the R Bookdown package: https://bookdown.org/


The workshop would use as a demonstration project how I moved our old BioCore Writing Guide online.

What participants will DO:
	Create their own free GitHub account.
	Set up a free plain text editor if they do not have one.
	Set up R/R Studio.
	Clone portions of the Writing Guide that I have set up.
	Either edit existing pre-selected pages, or create new ones they think are needed.
	Use knitr to HTML-ify what they write.
	Push their work to the GitHub book.

What participants will LEAVE WITH:
	Access to our updated Science Writing Guide which they can use in their courses, free of charge. 
	Their computer set up and ready to use R and R Studio to edit their copy of the Guide (or to do anything else that R Studio does.) 
	A free GitHub account that they can use to build books or share pages with others. 
	Several guides to writing web-ready documents in Markdown. 

What participants will SEE but not have time to learn to do:
	Using Marked2 for the HTML-ifier workflow (this is not free software.)
	How to launch a full book from scratch (it takes a little too much time to do in a workshop, but participants will be set up to do one on their own by the end.) 
	How to use R/R Studio to assess the quality and content of draft pages. 


 Marion, Co-Chair, New Mexico State University
Angela Seliga, Co-Chair, Boston University
Kathleen Verville, Washington College
Saphida Migabo, University of Northern British Columbia
Megan Cole, Emory University
Donna Pattison, University of Houston
Tim Suhr, University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Aakanksha Angra, Georgia State University

